From Hanselman it's dot com.
It's Hanselman. It's a weekly
discussion with web developer and
technologists. Scott Hanselman. This is
Lawrence Ryan announcing show number two
19 recorded live Thursday, June 24th, 2010.
Support for Hanselman it's just
provided by teller at rad
controls. The most comprehensive suite
of components for windows forms
and asp.net web applications online@wwwdottelerik.com.
In this episode, Scott demystifies
Microsoft's application server app fabric
with Karen D Anon. Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman and
this is another episode of
Hansel minutes and I'm on
the phone today with Karen
deep Anon. Who's a principal
of GPM at Microsoft corporation,
and he's going to talk
to me about the app
fabric today. Thank you, sir,
for taking time to chat
with me. Thank you for
having these classes. All right.
So I'm up on the
Microsoft website and I typed
in msdn.com/app fabric. And I
see that there, there appear
to be two different things
that are called app fabric.
I see a windows server
app fabric and a windows
as your app fabric. I
know what server is, and
I know what Azure is,
but why, what are the
two products called app fabric?
And are they the same
thing or different Today? We
have two offerings for fabric
brand. First is of course
the windows seven and fabric.
I just mentioned, we also
have the windows as your
fabric and the intent of
the two technologies is similar,
which is we give you
a bunch of application server
building blocks for you to
easily build applications. However, today
the do offerings have different
capabilities. So the windows not
fabric is about helping you
build applications, leveraging the card
infrastructure and using connectivity or
access control. So the two
big offerings within the asset
of fabric and you under
serve and our fabric on
the other hand is today
focused on providing containers for
writing your own code or
cash in technologies, which is
the board names with OSTI.
And today these are two
different offerings and capabilities, but
our intent is for these
to converge over time. And
then at fabric eventually becoming
the application server technologies from
Microsoft, both in the several
framework, as well as in
the cloud. I see that
I've heard a lot of
questions where people kind of
get, get confused myself, included
where they think that these
are currently the same thing,
and they want to know
why they're named the same
thing. So I'm hearing you
say that they are named
the same thing because it
is the intent they'll share
a componentry. There will be
a, there'll be feature parody
for lack of a better
word between these two things.
At some point in the
future, The intent is to
get to convergence of the
same technology stack, both on
premises and on the cloud.
Okay. Okay. So then that,
that, that tells me something
then just as a person
looking in that app fabric,
that word, that, that kind
of brand, that must be
our application server because I
used to work in finance
for many, many years. And
my conversation as I would
go and talk to vice
presidents of banks would usually
start with, hi, we use
windows and windows doesn't have
a component container or any
kind of application server. So
we wrote our own and
I worked for a company
that wrote a big, big
application server, and we would
go and compete against J
boss and WebSphere is app
fabric, our app server. Now
In a short answer, I
would say, yes, I fabric
is the app server from
Microsoft. And historically, just to
add more context to it,
as we've always had a
great set of technologies for
the application service space frameworks
named it, the doctrine framework
is, is way ahead of
its competition and what we
have to offer to developers.
And historically we've had windows
server as the application server.
And on top of that
S are being a web
server, also doubled as an
app server for middleware, but
without fabric, what we've done
is we've taken the ISS
and the vendor server as
the base platform and enhanced
it even further to actually
give a full application server
as industry understands it today
with J boss or you
name it, I mean the
same, same concept, but yes,
it's the first incarnation of
a full blown application service
pack from Microsoft. What are
some of the, the services
or the features that someone
looks at when they want
a, an application server? I
believe at the highest level,
the two ways think about
it. One is as a
developer, I get a whole
bunch of tools and I
get a bunch of programming
languages and frameworks. That's traditionally
been our strongest point with
a studio and with document
framework and dominant framework, being
our windows. Now in 2008,
our two gifts laces gives
a pretty strong foundation of
where we are with the
base frameworks. What fabric adds
on top of that is
a set of technologies or
building blocks so that developers
can focus on writing business
logic and application logic, as
opposed to having to worry
about how my app server,
the lifetime, the components, wardrobe,
these run and scale, that
is where app fabric has
an app set for that.
It gives you two key
sets of technologies. First one
is hosting and management off
your services. And in particular,
the spring, any documented net
photo and above written technology
stack in DAP and workflows,
and the second set of
technologies, which are in some
sense, likely different than hosting
code and writing code is
a big building block that
we see most applications requiring.
It's a set of caching
technologies, formerly codenamed velocity to
enable the writing scalable and
very fast access applications specifically
specifically before your web based
apps like asp.net. So in
short, there are two big
technologies for that topic. One
is a hosting and management
of services. And second is
caching off data for writing
scalable web applications. Okay. A
lot of people will just
run their ad. They just
have a simple app or
even a, not a simple
app. They just run their
app on iOS seven. How
do I know when I'm
outgrowing my application and I'm
going to need to start
thinking about introducing a more
formalized app fabric of application
server. That's a good one.
And that's typically a, you
being very nice to a
Scott. You know, typical question
is why do we really
need half fabric? I get
that all the time. I
mean, if you look at
it, it started right. You
would start with, I have
a bunch of code and
I've written my business logic.
Now I just need a
way to host it. Sure.
A lot of people would
go write a simple anti
service. Most students come and
say I'm to write it.
And as soon as the
application accord becomes anything meaty
or meaningful, you start writing
a lot of logic and
code to maintain that NT
service and say, I'm going
to worry about restartability. I'm
gonna worry about how it's
taught automatically on the machine
boot. How does it fail
over? How does it persist
state? And if you look
at the investments at this
point, the developer is making
his face a little to
do with the business logic
itself. You're already spending a
lot of time in writing
a basic framework of how
to run services the long
game I S and whether
it's simple to wise activation,
it added a lot of
took away a lot of
the complex D from developers
to write basic life cycle
management, of course, is designed
for writing great web applications.
If you're running longer running
services, you need additional help
to manage long running processes.
You use automated state of
those processes. That's what our
fabric comes in and does
what I as did for
basic lifecycle management of your
component to take it further
and say, if you are
daily, have applications running. And
I, as a, as longevity,
you need state maintenance. You
need persistence, you need better
monitoring or those that's what
our fabric does. And our
intent is that if we
give you these building blocks,
you don't really need to
worry about writing the basics
and the plumping off of
how to run an app.
Or do you need to
focus on as a developer
is really how to get
my business logic in my
application, logic focused on what
my customers need more than
what my infrastructure needs. Yeah.
When I was working in,
in banking, one of the
things that we would bump
into is the people we
were trying to sell to
would say something like, well,
this is all great, but
aren't you in the business
of banking? Why are you
bothering with component lifetime management
and state management and configuration
settings for services? This was
all stuff that we had
to build. When we were
just trying to write a
banking application. It had nothing
to do with banking. I
mean, it was a completely
generic application server that honestly
was taking time away from
the time we should have
been spending writing banking applications.
And we always used to
joke that we wanted to
do refactoring via subtraction, meaning
that whenever Microsoft would come
out with something that would
do what we needed it
to do already, then we
could just throw away something
that we wrote and start
worrying about the business problem.
And that's true. And first,
any professional developer to actually
go, right? A lot of
that logic every time it
is time consuming and takes
away a big chunk of
your productivity too, is these
basic reputative tasks. Interesting add
on to that is it's
not just at the development
time that you're paying this
huge cost. You, what you're
also doing is once you
have successful applications running, then
you need to go help
your operations or your monitoring
teams, or whoever is really
managing this app to start
building a lot of instrumentation,
a lot of code to
set out, spit out, debugging
information, tracing information, logging stuff.
And every time you build
an app, you have to
do that yourself because there
is no consistent framework or
an automated thing to give,
give basic monitoring and trouble
shooting information out to your
ops team. And that's one
of the other things that
we've done really well with
document photo and what I've
fabric enables on top of
that is once you have
an app running, we automatically
are able to dial up
and dial down the troubleshooting
levels. So you can get
basic health information, edit information,
and all the way up
till for the trouble shooting
logs, just by droning on
a few knobs. So not
only did you save a
lot of time during development
to not write basic life
cycle management, you don't have
to invest as much in
writing the basic monitoring and
troubleshooting lumping into your code
anymore, because the way dr
and photo is and water
fabric and enabled on top
of it can help you
spread out and reduce your
overhead of writing and monitoring
and troubleshooting code as well.
So that actually brings up
two interesting points. I think
first is I always used
to find myself writing, logging
and instrumentation code, but I
ended up putting in a
database or putting it in
a, in a log file.
And even now years later,
after I've left this banking
company, you'll find ops guys,
operations guys poking around inside
of a half dozen log
files, trying to figure out
what went wrong when they
really wish that they could
be inside of IIS manager
or inside of some MMC
snap in which brings me
to my second point, which
is that I pretty much
just assumed that app fabric
was just the name, the
new name for velocity, the
new name for our caching.
But as you listed out,
there's a bunch of different
things. So we should go
through that. So you talked
about monitoring, there's like a
dashboard isn't there like an
app fabric dashboard that the
operations guys can look at
and see all sorts of
information about my services. Actually,
our fabric is philosophy, which
is caching, and then a
big set of investments on
top of IIS, which is
the fabric dashboard and fabric
plumping that helps you do
both hosting of custom code,
as well as hosting and
management of the same application
while a very, very familiar
UI, which is your IIS
on ad manager itself. So
the second element that we
were talking about the fabric
dashboard, this is simpler to
use out of the box,
configure a dashboard, which helps
you look at the existing
services. You have deployed docs
to a single centralized database,
pulls out all the information
at logs, inventing information and
monitoring information, and can give
you simple credits out of
the box or help you
auto advance credit use that
your ops team can go
look and be bogged information
using. So this is through
the life cycle of an
application. It's a great set
of technologies for your developers
to use who had their
basic hosting cord and basic
debugging information that even developers
can use. Then it's a
great UI dueling, as well
as a great single centralized
database based location for storing
all the AR monitoring and
debugging and trouble shooting information
into a single location with
a UI, which has the
dashboard Google credit and manage
it in the day to
day operations, life cycle aspect
of your application. And the
same information can then go
get fed back into the
development life cycle so that
you know, what way to
applications typically fault or way
of performance is bad, or
the typical defense. If you
see, so that you can
actually close that loop and
improve your application in the
next round, based on the
information you've been collecting and
storing using our fabric. Hi,
this is Scott. I just
want to remind you guys
that there is no show
without a sponsor. Somebody has
got to pay for all
this bandwidth and the more
popular the show becomes. The
more important it is that
we thank our sponsors folks
like Tellerik, I wanna let
you guys know that Tellerik
has got a pretty cool
deal going between June 1st, 2010 and
August 31st, 2010. Any interested listener, just
send an email to podcast@telleriktlerik.com
mentioned Hansel minutes, and they
will reply and they'll give
you a special $50 off
coupon code. So just remember
podcast at  dot com
mentioned Hansel minutes, $50 off.
This goes until August 31st, 2010, and
big thanks again for the
folks at Tellerik for believing
in our show and for
continuing to help pay for
our expenses. So does this,
what is this change? Is
this a library or is
this a new service to
get these features? What is
it? Am I hosting my
services in a different, different
place? What are the, what
are the hosting services that
make this possible? Actually, yeah,
I should have probably started
with that to get windows
seven fabric. It's a windows
component and you need to
download from xr.com/hot fabric website,
the package, which installed at
fabric on it, or when
the server. So there's no
extra licensing or extra, you
know, things need to go
by, you just go download
this package on a fabric,
so a package and just
installed it on any window.
So it box what it
actually does is it goes
and sits on top of
IAS. So it goes enabled
IIS. It asks you to
provision or winder to a
secret database that we can
use. If you already have
a SQL server, you can
point when DeSoto fabrics installed
that service. So we can
go create a monitoring and
a persistence database for you
for automatically. Once the configuration
is done, then you continue
using the same ways of
developing an application as you're
dead on. I S and
holstered in, I S the
only differences with the fabric
dashboard, you now have a
UI for configuration management, as
well as for monitoring those
applications. So, in addition to
just the iOS enhancements and
a bunch of you, actually,
a couple of interesting knobs
there to go improve the
management of your application by
turning on things like auto
start auto start is a
simple one where every time
your machine needs to, again,
what alphabet does is it
gives an a timer. It,
it stops those services automatically
for you. So that your
first time experience of using
a service is pretty quick.
You're not waiting for the
whole machine and the state
to get initialized. Our fabrics
already done that for you.
So things like those enhancements
on top of the code,
I asked hosting infrastructure itself
to make managing of the
services a lot more easier.
So it's not a different
deal out. It's not a
different goal. It's not a
different way of thinking watered.
It's the same, same way
of how you develop or
adopt CF or application using
darknet photo, using your favorite
tools, posting it on IIS,
and you just get a
whole bunch of this plumbing
for free. I see. I
see. So then just as
like J boss extends Apache,
and if I'm using Apache
and I love Apache and
I switch it and I
start using J boss, it's
not that I have to
completely learn something new. So
if I like  and
I'm start doing things on
app fabric, it's going to
feel like it's an extension
of iOS seven. It's not
going to feel like a
whole new universe. Exactly. We
don't want people to go
learn yet another battle or
figured out yet another way
of building an application. We
just extend the way they
build services today, but just
give them a whole bunch
of frameworks and tools to
just make them a lot
more productive. Okay. Okay. So
there's, so there's health monitoring
and the monitoring dash board,
and that lets you see,
you know, logs and health
issues and anything that a
WCF, a windows communication foundation
or a WF, or what
Microsoft people called dev workflow
service. That's all automatic. So
if I have a WCF
service now, or I have
a workflow service, now, all
that health data is generated
automatically. It's just going to
work and I don't have
to do anything. So I
get monitoring of services effectively
for free. Exactly. And I'm
glad you asked about that,
Beth, as we like to
call it or workflow. The
couple of other things that
we do for workflow in
particular is if, you know,
if you're familiar with how
you write simple workflows or,
you know, fairly complex state
for the workflows, you would
need to persist the state
of your workflow at every
checkpoint or an activity. And
typically configuring a persistence database,
putting checkpoints, making sure that
your state of your workflow
is maintained and you can
restart from that point onwards.
It's fairly a complex task
with the announcements and document
photo and all the work
around persistence there, coupled with
the fact that a fabric
configures a persistence database for
you, but on by default
and multiple workflow instances can
use the same database. You
get a lot of tools
to use, to manage workflows
a lot better and not
easier as well, just because
you've used doctor and photo.
You get all the other
persistence capabilities, you know, the
ability to go start a
Loxo instance, top a looks
for instance, look at a
suspended. Well, for instances all
out of the box, just
because you're using app fabric,
Right, right in business, a
lot of services are, are
long running. We had this
in banking when we were
doing bill payments and funding.
Not everything can be done
in a second. So when
you have a long running
workflow, you need to basically
hydrate it and dehydrate it
and you know, effectively suspend
and resume and manage the
lifetime of that workflow. And
you really quickly get into
things that don't have anything
to do with your business,
but have a lot to
do with administration. I call
it administrivia of these, these
things. And I thought we
just makes it a lot
easier building on top of
the investments that the frameworks
team has made in document
photos based workflows. So we
just give you a lot
of tools out of the
box, easy for administrators to
actually use and learn to
monitor the workflows, start, stop
them and troubleshoot them as
well. Okay. So I've got
my application that has its
own database for doing whatever
my application does. I get
a persistent storage for managing
the instance lifetime. We've got
health monitoring services and things
like that. What about configuring?
What about sharing settings between
w a F services and
WCF services? Actually, that's usually
the biggest pain that we've
seen with most applications, which
need to host on an
infrastructure line I S or
anywhere staff for that matter.
We do have very heavily
fall back and depend on
the ISP configuration itself, because
I think the IST team
is find the need on
how to manage configuration, not
the machine level. So you
have policy at the machine
level that you can enforce,
and then you have a
clear concept of application fools,
and you can have configurations
and talking in Cortez and
that level, and then your
applications configuration itself is just
a simple convict file where
you can author that outside
and maintain it outside of
your application code itself and
use it. And what our
fabric does is it helps
you with that configuration using
the same ISPN configuration concept
and underlying tech stack, which
is you have machine config
and you have a dark
config do manage the configuration
of your, into an application.
So you get basic configuration
support of ability. Why do
you have fabric dashboard? Oh,
so it's all inside the
dashboard. So managing a service
and the dashboard looks the
same as managing a site.
All right, cool. That's a
simple way to put it.
So what we did for
services, what I assessed for
ASI. Oh, that's cool. That's
a good way to put
it. Okay. I'm trying to,
I'm actually, I'm I'm in
my mind, I'm listing out
kind of all the things
that I had to do
at my last job and
seeing if I can get
rid of as much of
these as possible. The other
thing that I had to
do was I had to
write a bunch of PowerShell
tasks to manage our services.
This is right when PowerShell
came out. So it was
a little controversial and a
lot of people didn't know
about PowerShell, but I basically
automated a bunch of stuff,
managing, managing health, data, monitoring
data, starting and stopping services.
What kind of PowerShell love
can you give me here?
Huge, huge fan of power
cells. Let me, let me
put my bias out there
before I answer that question.
So in general, what we
are seeing across Microsoft, the
principle we are following is
that if you can do
it through UI, you should
be able to do it
through a power show. And
I'm not that the theme
as they follow the principles
for fabric all up. And
in fact, the more things
you can do probably through
PowerShell, then what you can
do from even dashboard. And
we've made sure that everything
you can do through the
dashboard, which is setting up
the services, monitoring the services,
being able to spit out
the status of any other
workflow instances, look at troubleshooting
logs, all that can actually
be done through PowerShell so
that if you want to
build your own custom dashboards,
or if you want to
integrate with our operations stools,
be able to build a
larger portal for your application
as the banking industry that
you've talked about, I'm pretty
sure they have a lot
of different frameworks and tools
already in place for them
to really go fight a
bias. Every time they need
to go look at something
might not be acceptable things.
So what we did with
all the cool stuff that
we build in the dashboard,
we enabled it through our
shelf completely so that you
can put it your own
company, specific something you loved
and professed dashboard tooling and
integrate our fabric capabilities into
that using PowerShell. Okay. So
I could write my own
UI, my own GUI even,
and then call the PowerShell
stuff by hosting PowerShell command.
Let's within my, my management
application. Exactly. And we've gone
through the pain of making
sure that pretty much everything
we get through UI, we
get through PowerShell. So you
won't be charged, charged that.
That's cool. That's cool. All
right. And then the thing
that we've actually haven't really
talked too much about was
formerly code named velocity, which
is our distributed caching. And
that's baked into app fabric
as well. Yes, actually, these
were earlier two different technologies
that people just wanted to
sign as coordinating Dublin, which
was all the technologies we
just talked about on our
hosting management and troubleshooting and
config, and then velocity that
was so we have to
coordinate Dublin and velocity and
finally got them together. Cause
he figured that our web
developers and app developers can
actually use both of them
together and call them out
fabric as the signaling, the
first application server from Microsoft.
Okay. And this works in
client windows seven and Vista
for developers. But this runs
on windows server 2008, both
service pack two and windows
server 2008 or two. Is
that correct? Is disconnect. Yes.
So the app fabric itself
is an extension or an
add on, or actually technically
it's an offline component on
top of windows server itself.
So if you have in
December, 2008, SP two, and if,
or if you're in the
, you already are entitled
or already have a license
for our fabric. So these
are the two platforms that
can run on. You don't
need to do anything special
to go buy it on
license. There don't figure out
how to get it. You
just get through this download
package, which we released about
two weeks ago at tech
ed. So it's available publicly.
Now people can go download,
install, and play with it.
Ah, here we go. So
now I get to nail
you down. So this is,
this is released. This is
not like, cause it kind
of felt like it was
in a permanent beta, but
this is done. This is
done in its first version.
Yeah. Excuse me. I see.
So version one is done
and this is a part
of windows. So it's, it's,
it's supported if I call
and I say I'm running
windows server 2008 or two,
I'm using app fabric. They're
going to know what I
mean. And I'm going to
be as supported as anything
else on windows. Exactly. This
is no longer a download
you play where it's no
longer a quarterback's tools thing.
You just can get an
experiment where this is actually
a full windows server component
and you get the full
windows server support. You can
call it BSS. And Okay.
Now for people who are
using 2003, this, this is
not something that runs on
windows server 2003. But I,
I did notice that if
you are a client of
the distributed cash. So if
you have some existing services
in 2008, 2003 servers that
you have already can talk
to that distributed cash with
the, with a downloadable little
piece that lets 2003 servers
talk to velocity. Interesting, Scott,
you, you know, all little
secrets. So yes, we made
a separate Han load weldable
specifically for, you know, customers
who lost still in the
migration phase of moving from
windows 2003 based web service
thousand eight. What we did
was give them an easier
path of migrating and thing
and telling them, you know,
what is available with windows
2008 when they upgrade completely.
So when you download the
windows seven, our fabric package,
you don't get that line,
but there is a separate
download available for that class
for customers to just help
them ease the migration process
and to use distributed cash
from the industry thousand three
based web service. So it's
an interim thing that we
hope people can use for
short term and help them
migrate to understood eventually. Yeah,
I mean, for me as
a developer, the reason to
go to 2008 or go
to windows seven is .
I mean, just  and
I'm saying this as a
developer, more than I am
a paid Microsoft shill, but
I seven is so much
better than I as six.
So you definitely want to
get on iOS seven if
you can. But if you
have an existing application that
you just, for whatever reason,
the boss insists that it
runs on server 2003, it's
nice to know that you
could take advantage of that
distributed caching on your 2008
machines kind of remotely from
your 2003 machine that you're
maybe in the process of,
of doing a migration on.
I just thought that was
a nice nod to the
people who are doing that
because, you know, we, we
tend to come out with
stuff very quickly. And it's
cool that even though windows
server 2003 is seven years
old that this, that this
interim thing exists. Yes. And
in the sport life cycle
of this is support lifecycle
of windows 2003. So I
think we still have a
few more months. I'm not,
I'm don't remember the data
anymore, but often it's through
the elementary support. So I'm
hoping that people who can
use it till then and
use this component and quickly
migrate for reasons you just
described to . So let
me think of it. Let
me think here, if there's
anything I've forgotten. So there's
a management pack. If you're
using operations manager that you
can actually manage app fabric
within that as well. Right?
Correct. So if you have
investments in operations management system
center, you can actually use
the management bank. And what
that does is it gives
you the fabric dashboard, like
capabilities of doing monitoring. Why,
why are your system centers,
operation manager, you, why? So
you get a lot of
fat. And in addition to
that, because the management pack
is sitting outside the box
itself, it can also do
health wandering off the server
itself and the database as
well. So management back the
way to think about it
is what the fabric dashboard
provides you for monitoring last
plus, because it can also
do machine or civil management
also monitoring for the fabric
over as well. So folks
can go to msdn.com/app fabric
too, to get this, but
I it's, is it true?
They can also get it
inside of the, the web
platform installer. That is. So
in fact, I personally always
use the web dot from
installer on my development machine
just to get started. And
when I Matthew deploying applications,
then I actually go use
the full setup and then
on our package, but YPI
is so cool. It just
automates the whole process for
me that I can pick,
start installed SQL express installs.
Yeah. Fabric weights, configures. I
am ready to go with
it once. I'm back with
my coffee. Yeah. During some
of the betas and CTPs
I found velocity and app
fabric difficult to install, but
the, the, the final releases
is actually not difficult at
all. I was able to
put it together in about
10 minutes and it's even
faster being able to just
go into the web platform
installer and add it from
there. So yeah, if you
can, if you can use
the web platform installer, it's
definitely considerably easier. And while
we didn't get a lot
of time to talk about
the distributed cash today, but
I believe Scott you've already
had a nice long conversation
with Anil on this in
the past, but I would
strongly recommend looking at the
caching. And I think that's
probably the coolest thing you
would have seen on, on
mixer platform, which signals our
intent for our future roadmap
as well. And taking a
few minutes just to quickly
describe what is so special
about distributed cash. It actually
builds on an architecture. What
I personally like to call
is the cloud architecture and
whether it was on premises,
which is instead of setting
up clustering or other ways
of achieving high availability, which
are great for the workloads
that work on today. But
things like caching, which are
stateful things, you have data.
If you're just starting in
cash at the same time,
you need a little bit
of D very quickly and
cheaply. So instead of relying
on other old ways of
different ways of achieving that
high availability, what we've done
is we've used a lot
of the same concept set
Bible, or C-Class your infrastructure
in velocity, which is just
a good cash and made
a highly available and a
distributed cash, whether it was
on premises. So setting up
a five North cash or
10 or cash and setting
up in a high availability
configuration, it's all a matter
of just adding more nodes.
You don't have to worry
about how to manage a
cash cost, how to configure
it, how to manage the
uptime and availability. A lot
of those problems having obstructed
and moving away from the
administration experience down to the
platform itself. So what cash
builds on today, I'm hoping
will be the substrate photo,
blurting out all our future
technologies, which need to scale
up and still provide the
Ohio availability needs. So from
that perspective, just wanting to
put that small plugins thing,
if you're interested in knowing
what's coming in future from
our fabric lossy or the
distributed cash is a great
architecture and signaling our intent
for building lot scale, highly
available, very elastic and redundant
capabilities of compute onto the
rest of our stacks of
fabric and app server technologies.
And, and I, like you
said earlier, the best part
of it all is that
you don't have to buy
anything in the sense that
if you have a licensing
server, you already have this.
So yeah, if you need
a memory server, especially one
that has high availability, which
is a feature that isn't
available in some other memory
server products, then definitely check
out velocity inside of that
factor. Okay. And you'll be
amazed at how easy this
use. Cause when I bought
the first complication was doing
a simple asp.net talking to
a secret database, using SQL
for both my session state,
as well as for actual
data switching to velocity, I
thought I'd be spending a
lot more time on actually
setting up and configuring lossy
as opposed to writing application
logic and the switch to
setting up a simple cluster
and getting to use the
cash. It was so easy.
And with the out-of-box ASP
document session state provider that
we ship switching from using,
you know, CQL or something
else you might be using
today, we're using velocity as
CRSP documentation. Data provider was
simple and very quick. So
we have that available out
of the box for people
to make that switch today.
In addition, you can use
the distributed cache for storing
any other data that you
might want to make available
next to your rep or
your application deal and still
access that while accessing the
database in Barlow or reducing
the need to access database
on frequently. Very cool. Well,
I'll add links to everything,
including white papers and where
people can download stuff in
the show notes. And thank
you so much. Karen de
Pinon from the distributed application
server group for taking time
to chat with me today.
Thanks for having me, Scott.
This has been another episode
of Hansel minutes and I'll
see you again next week.